---
author: "Seth"
categories: [daily blog]
date: 2017-03-31T23:26:51-05:00
description: "Active Record is awesome, Gemfile.lock files are not so awesome, and I plan to play some catch up and still hit my goals..."
featured: "SW_Chelsea+Francis-2.jpg"
featuredalt: "magic comes from work"
featuredpath: "../../images/"
linktitle: "magic comes from work"
title: Day 33
---

I started Active Record tonight and I'm stoked. Mostly because a lot of the work has already been done and now I can just use the magic that is provided to me. I think I have always had the basic understanding that there are libraries that will be doing a lot of the things I have been learning for me. That is why when I get stuck on things but can still complete projects and labs I just push through. I definitely save bookmarks to go back to if need be but ultimately I want to see how granularly I really need to know some of these concepts before I spend hours learning them deeper. While I know having the deeper understanding is a good thing I also have a timeline I'm working with and can dive deeper into topics once I've graduated or have landed a job.

Database migrations are a nice thing to have.

I got sutck for a while tonight because my environment was throwing an error in relation to the JSON gem. Specifically version `1.8.3` which was inthe `Gemfile.lock` of afew of the labs I've worked on tonight. I learned with the help of a Learn Expert (someone who's around to help out studnets) that the `Gemfile.lock` is pretty much a set of dependencies that were used when the files were written and are statically set to keep things consistent. So we deleted that file and ran `bundle` again and everything worked fine. Luckily I asked why we did what we did so I would know enough to repeat the process tonight. Every time I run into this problem I do raise an issue on GitHub so hopefully it'll be taken care of for those following behind me.

I feel like I'm behind on the target I set for myself and I have the [Free Code Camp Nashville][1] meetup to go to tomorrow. Plus a wedding shower on Sunday. I still plan to be done with Rack this weekend. That's 22 lessons/labs. I also am considering adding an extra full day into next week by having my nanny come and watch my girls on Friday. So instead of 3 hours next Friday night, I can hit it hard all day and have a 10 hour day. We'll see how I feel after Monday's progress.

Something I did to save some time is now when I generate my static blog files they automatically are put into my proper local file location to be uploaded to the seperate repo. That's a complicated sentence to say, I keep my content in one folder and repo, and my public facing files in another folder and repo. I had been generating the public file then copying and pasting in my file manager. Now the files are generated directly into the proper folder saving me a few steps and speeding up my publishing time.

Time spent today: 2:43  
Time spent total: 137:55  
Lessons completed today: 5  
Lessons completed total: 330

  [1]:https://www.facebook.com/groups/free.code.camp.nashville
