---
author: "Seth"
categories: [daily blog]
date: 2017-05-13T23:30:44-05:00
description: "Day 76 of Flatiron School"
featured: "rubymine.png"
featuredalt: "rubymine screen shot"
featuredpath: "../../images/"
title: Rails Projects & RubyMine
---

Today was long but good. I started off by hosting my first study group. Turns some people really do get some coding done on the weekends even if Slack is much quieter. We had a good talk and it was an easy way to start the day.

I got through the Pundit lab which took way longer than I thought it would but that was fine. I didn't feel like I was beating my head against a well. Just progressing. It felt good to struggle some then overcome.

I started my first Rails Project tonight and was able to get all of the model tests passing. I've completely (except for this blog) switched over to [RubyMine][1] now and I'm slowing figuring out more and more about it. It's super powerful and I see a lot of it relies on opening a project at the root folder. All of the labs for Flatiron are in a singular folder so I typically open that one folder full of folders and that throws off most of the features of RubyMine. Too many VCS repos all in one project. Tonight I got tests to run automatically upon code changes. I also realized that RubyMine could generate an image with relationships mapped for my models which is **dope**. In addition, I started to look at the rubocop linting and was able to remove the block from this `map` method and use `&:` instead.

```ruby
# before
def total
  items.map { |item| item.price }.sum
end

# after rubocop linting
def total
  items.map(&:price).sum
end
```

I also decided to track my time on each project from now on. However, I completely forgot to start tracking my Rails Projects when I got to it though. Luckily [Wakatime][2] saved the day and told me how long I had been working on the project. I'm stoked that I'm on the projects even if it's a little later in the day than I had planned on. This means I'm almost 100% going to be starting my Rails Portfolio Project tomorrow!

Time spent today: 10:26  
Time spent total: 291:53  
Lessons completed today: 2  
Lessons completed total: 516

  [1]:https://www.jetbrains.com/ruby/
  [2]:https://wakatime.com/i/4ddebe79-ef50-4248-9c69-9a5e03b92ce3
