---
author: "Seth"
categories: [daily blog]
date: 2017-05-22T23:06:22-05:00
description: "Day 85 of Flatiron School"
featured: "js_lrg.jpg"
featuredalt: "javascript logo"
featuredpath: "../../images/"
title: Back to JavaScript
---

So I'm back in JavaScript world again. Since I had done a lot of the intro stuff during my Bootcamp Prep work I spent tonight mostly skimming over everything I already had done to remind my mind how to think JS. I have to say, it didn't come back quickly when I was reading it. The first lab I worked on, well the only lab I worked on, was slow. However, the functions and syntax came quickly. I feel good now that I'm done for the night. Like my brain is back to JS somewhat. I didn't get the lab completed which was a bummer. I can look at how simple it is and know that I would have finished it in the same amount of time in Ruby but that's fine. It'll come quickly. The biggest thing is I know how to solve these problems better now. I just need to find equivalent functions in JS to get what I need done.

One thing I spent some time on was figuring out how to access a local "JS playground" in the terminal. It's just easier to hit a key combo and pop into the terminal in my IDE and test than to switch over to the browser. It took asking and some searching but I finally came up with running `node` to bring up a [repl][1] (pretty sure I can't explain this so read the Wikipedia and be more confused). Also, to exit out of it `process.exit()` is used. This was a nice find because I was spoiled by [IRB][2], [Pry][3], [byebug][4] and such in Ruby.

I didn't _technically_ finish any lessons tonight but I felt like I got alot done.

Time spent today: 2:23  
Time spent total: 323:28  
Lessons completed today: 0  
Lessons completed total: 519

  [1]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Read–eval–print_loop
  [2]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interactive_Ruby_Shell
  [3]:http://pryrepl.org
  [4]:https://github.com/deivid-rodriguez/byebug
