---
author: "Seth"
categories: [daily blog]
date: 2017-05-29T23:13:50-05:00
description: "Day 92 of Flatiron School"
featured: "dashboard.jpg"
featuredalt: "graduation dashboard"
featuredpath: "../../images/"
title: Graduation Sprint Time
---

So I had a bunch of stuff to say, okay not really, and then I checked my Dashboard on Learn and saw the beautiful sight that my Graduation Dashboard has appeared! That means I'm past 75% done and in the final stretch. Being 75% done in <3 months has me on track to be done before the end of June! I'm stoked.

So something that I had been struggling with is how Ruby is a class-based object-oriented language and JavaScript is a prototype based object-oriented language. This always confused me. The whole prototype thing in general always confused me in JS. Until now:

> There are two primary types of object-oriented (OO) languages: class-based and prototype-based.
>
> In a class-based OO language, such as Ruby, Java, C#, and C++, we must first design the *Class*, or blueprint, of an object, and then create objects from that blueprint in order to use them.
>
> Imagine a set of instructions from IKEA as the *Class*, and your assembled Fthugënbøller bookcase as the *object*.
>
> avaScript uses prototypal OO. Instead of creating a nonfunctional class definition, we actually create the object, which is then used as a prototype to create other objects.
>
> In the real world, this would be like taking a bunch of laminated wood and assembling a Fthügënbøller, and then using that as your guide, or prototype, for creating other Fthügënbøllers, and Fthügënbøller-like objects.

That real world analogy did it for me. Of course, then I learned about [ES6 JS Classes][1]. However, knowing how something can be built multiple ways is a strong skill to have. Although, I have to admit, after doing a lab testing prototypal inheritance works and is accomplished by using `Object.create()` among other things. Then doing a lab testing the use of classes. I much prefer classes haha.

I also ran into an issue tonight doing that prototype lab:

```javascript
function Point (x, y) {
  this.x = x
  this.y = y
}
Point.prototype.toString = () => {
  return `(${this.x}, ${this.y})`
}

// In the terminal
> var p = new Point(2,3)
undefined
> p
Point { x: 2, y: 3 }
> p.toString()
'(undefined, undefined)'
```

I couldn't figure out why this was returning `undefined`. I finally just removed the arrow function and and used a normal(?) function and it worked:

```javascript
Point.prototype.toString = function () {
  return `(${this.x}, ${this.y})`
}
```

This was interesting to me and I need to dive deeper into why this happened. As I read You Don't Know JS, I find myself no happy with figuring these problems out and moving on. I want to understand the why behind them. Although, if anybody out there knows feel free to fill me in.

Time spent today: 8:45  
Time spent total: 353:05  
Lessons completed today: 14  
Lessons completed total: 573

  [1]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes
