---
author: ""
categories: [daily blog]
date: 2017-03-16T23:21:28-05:00
description: ""
featured: ""
featuredalt: ""
featuredpath: ""
linktitle: ""
title: Day 18
---

Today saw **a lot** of new stuff. I feel like a ton of stuff was introduced and not gone over very deeply but deep enough for me to understand and implement it. In 11 lessons and labs I was exposed to `super` and how to use it, mass assignments, creating and implementing custom errors, gems, [bundler][1], and basic scraping with [Nokogiri][2]. I can tell I was exposed to many things in preparation for the first projects, which can't get here fast enough! At least I say that now, we'll see how I feel when I'm at a complete stand still and stuck on one of them lol.

Today I got stuck for a little while utilizing `super`. I had a lab with a parent class with a method that simply `puts "I can't remember what it was exactly."` and in the child class I was suppose to use `super` to have that phrase repeated 10 times. So my initial attempt, inside the method was: `super.10.times` as I figured I could just call this method but I got ``NoMethodError: undefined method `super' for #<Enumerator: 10:times>``. Hmmm. I did some searching and even called `super.class` in pry but couldn't get anymore info. BTW, `super.class` literally gave me nothing but a new line in pry to look at, or was that actually something??? So I posed the quesiton in the Slack channel for those who are enrolled in the bootcamp. After a side chain of responses with back and forth I got what I needed for my understanding

> super yields the implementation from the method it’s overriding and returns the last return value or it just returns the last return value.  
> - [Yianna][3] (thanks!)

This is what I needed. Since it's returning the last value and `super` was just a simple `puts` method the return value was `nil`. No wonder I couldn't make method calls on it. I also got some way more in depth info that I haven't had a chance to digest yet. I didn't want to get stuck on it when I knew just typing out `super` ten times would pass the lab. In fact, that's how Flatiron's solution was coded. This lab was more about understanding how `super` works than how to call methods on it.

Other than that it was just A LOT of information as I stated at the beginning. Also a chuckle when I found out that `~>` is affectionately called a "twiddle-wakka" for whatever reason. I can figure out the twiddle part but the wakka is stumping me right now. If you know please comment and inform me.

I have a few video reviews and then I start projects!!!

Time spent today: 3:16  
Time spent total: 79:20  
Lessons completed today: 11  
Lessons completed total: 279

[1]: https://bundler.io/

[2]: http://www.nokogiri.org/

[3]: https://github.com/genericlady
