---
author: "Seth"
categories: [daily blog]
date: 2017-04-24T23:02:15-05:00
description: "Day 57 of Flatiron School"
featured: "minions.jpg"
featuredalt: "minions talking"
featuredpath: "../../images/"
title: The Speaker-Listener Technique
---

I can happily say that I got zero, yes 0 coding done today. Well I guess I got a little in during my 45 minutes Sinatra Project review this morning. Which was a great review btw.

>Hi Seth,
>
>Awesome job on your Sinatra Project!! You did a great job, and I really appreciate your work on the Active Record relationships and your clean and concise code. As you move forward these practices will help you a lot.
>
>Please reach out if you have any questions or concerns as you move through Rails.
>
>Regards,

A couple things that I shored up/added this morning were Active Record validations for uniqueness on username and email when someone signs up as well as displaying error messages on the sign up page.

Why am I happy about this? Well on Sunday night my wife and I attended a brief marriage seminar. Just something to provide us with tools to communicate better (something most marriages probably need). Tonight we utilized the take home (a fridge magnet) and had a good conversation. So what does this fridge magnet say? It's the "Speaker-Listener Technique".

>**The Floor**  
>Speaker-Listener Technique
>
>**Rules for the Speaker:**
>1. Speak for yourself. Don't mind read!
>2. Keep statements brief. Don't go on and on.
>3. Stop to let the Listener paraphrase.
>
>**Rules for the Listener:**
>1. Paraphrase what you hear.
>2. Focus on the Speaker's message. Don't rebut.
>
>**Rules for Both:**
>1. The Speaker has the floor.
>2. Speaker keeps the floor while Listener paraphrases.
>3. Share the floor.

Needless to say this concept worked very well tonight for my wife and I. It's designed for times of conflict but we just used it for a normal conversation. Because of this, I'm happy I missed out on coding. While I miss it I know what's truly important during this short life and a few hours of Rails is not #1.

Time spent today: 3:52  
Time spent total: 213:43  
Lessons completed today: 12  
Lessons completed total: 443
