---
author: "Seth"
categories: [daily blog]
date: 2017-05-24T23:02:14-05:00
description: "Day 87 of Flatiron School"
featured: "warning.jpg"
featuredalt: "strict lady"
featuredpath: "../../images/"
title: Let's Be Strict
---

Today I spent 30 mins pairing with one of the Learn instructors trying to work through some issues my Rails portfolio project has. Something I found out is that the project requirement to use a custom attribute writer instead of `has_nested_attributes` actually removes some functionality from the final app. Because of this lack of Rails magic one of my problems is harder to fix than expected. The other one is just a more simple `if...else` statement.

JavaScript is coming along and I'm happy it's clicking more and more each day. It was definitely frustrating to have a rather solid grasp on a workflow, resources, and a knowledge base and then go back to almost nothing. I haven't dove back in to the [Mozilla Developer Network][1] (MDN for short) docs but I know it's coming soon.

Something that I ran across today in my IDE was a linting error from [JSLint][2] stating `Missing "use strict" pragma` on one of my functions. So, like a good dev I Googled this (well DuckDuckGo'ed this). I came to a great post and discussion about this on [Stack Overflow][3]. My takeaways were that using `'use strict';` enforces things that JavaScript allows to happen or will throw silent errors for. So, it basically forces a person to write their code correctly. However, this can be dangerous in legacy code. A great answer contained this gem IMO:

> ### Where should I use 'use strict';?
>
> - In my _new_ JavaScript application: **Absolutely!** Strict mode can be used as a whistleblower when you are doing something stupid with your code.
> - In my _existing_ JavaScript code: **Probably not!** If your existing JavaScript code has statements that are prohibited in strict-mode, the application will simply break. If you want strict mode, you should be prepared to debug and correct your existing code. This is why _using_ `'use strict';` _does not suddenly make your code better_.

I plan to add `'use strict';` to the top of every new JavaScript file I work on. I see no reason not to at this point in time and it'll only enforce me writing better code in the end.

What do _you_ think about `'use strict';`? Leave it in the comments for me.

I also found out tonight from my Free Code Camp Nashville Co-Organizer [Dave][4] that he scored us a table at [Music City Code 2017][5] which is pretty sweet. Not sure what we're going to do with our table just yet so if you have ideas please let me know!

Time spent today: 3:07  
Time spent total: 329:01  
Lessons completed today: 5  
Lessons completed total: 529

  [1]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/
  [2]:http://www.jslint.com
  [3]:https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1335851/what-does-use-strict-do-in-javascript-and-what-is-the-reasoning-behind-it
  [4]:https://github.com/davi3blu3
  [5]:https://www.musiccitycode.com
