---
author: "Seth"
categories: [daily blog]
date: 2017-05-18T23:09:50-05:00
description: "Day 81 of Flatiron School"
featured: "hanami.jpg"
featuredalt: "fountain"
featuredpath: "../../images"
title: Rails & Bootstrap & Font Awesome
---

Today was productive. I was able to create a more in depth TODO file during the day while I was watching my kiddos. This allowed me to think more about how my app was going to function and what I needed/wanted to build into it. It provided me with a better workflow for the evening. I knew exactly what I would be working on tonight. Even if I did get sidetracked a couple times while working it was still always productive. Granted a lot is going into making the app look better than a default Bootstrap install. I got Omniauth through Devise up and running tonight smoothly by following the docs. Only snag I hit for a quick minute was in my using of [`dotenv`][1].
 
```ruby
# First try
config.omniauth :facebook, FB_APP_ID, FB_APP_SECRET

# Second try
config.omniauth :facebook, 'FB_APP_ID', 'FB_APP_SECRET'

# Third and correct try
config.omniauth :facebook, ENV['FB_APP_ID'], ENV['FB_APP_SECRET']
```

This was pretty easy to troubleshoot. The first try threw an error. The second try had `FB_APP_ID` in my Oauth URL telling me that the string was being passed (makes sense). Then one more reading of the docs and I got the correct implementation.

I also had to figure out how to render a proper looking Bootstrap button as a link using Rails helpers. Okay, I didn't _have_ to but I wanted to. After playing around for a bit I decided on this code:  
`<%= button_to 'Add Your First Place', new_place_path, class: 'btn btn-primary', method: :get %>`  
Which isn't the prettiest but is getting the job done correctly. I want to add a [Font Awesome][2] icon inside the button and I think to do that I'll have to pass a block in. I'm going to work on that tomorrow though. It'll be a useful thing to figure out so I can stylize the Oauth login buttons better. The one I have right now is currently just a text link. We all know that's no fun.

I also went to a meetup tonight where the presenter talked about [Elm][3]. It's a functional language which is definitely different. However, the presenter said that he felt Elm was a great starter to learn a functional language. I'll probably look into this when I finally have some free time after I'm donw with Flatiron. Elixir is of interest but it might be too big of a jump to start. We'll see. I could possibly also keep building things in the languages I'm learning to show more mastery of those until I land my first gig then start branching off. Another one out there is [Hanami][4] built on Ruby which I've heard is pretty cool and built more like other frameworks and libraries than Rails. That might be the next logical step. **There's just so much** knowing what to do next is a research project in its own right. I look forward to it though.

My newest obsession which I learned at the meetup tonight is leading commas:

```ruby
new_person = { name: "Seth"
  , age: 32
  , height: 74
  , weight: 155
  , alive: true
}
```

I'll just leave that there.

Time spent today: 2:19  
Time spent total: 306:57  
Lessons completed today: 0  
Lessons completed total: 518

  [1]:https://github.com/bkeepers/dotenv
  [2]:http://fontawesome.io
  [3]:http://elm-lang.org
  [4]:http://hanamirb.org
