---
author: "Seth"
categories: [daily blog]
date: 2017-04-29T22:57:26-05:00
description: "Day 62 of Flatiron School"
featured: "kick.jpg"
featuredalt: "high kick"
featuredpath: "../../images"
title: Get in Flow and Go
---

It felt so good to spend almost the entire day coding. I missed it. My progress was VERY SLOW at times (or so it felt). Things like the [`:source` option in Active Record][1] were foreign and not really taught but needed to solve a large lab I was working on starting first thing this morning. Luckily I have access to some awesome help. Here's one conversation I had today:

>	Seth Alexander 34 MINUTES AGO    
> Need some help understanding the `has_many` option `:source`
>
> PJ 34 MINUTES AGO  
> Hey there Seth how's it gong?
>
> Seth Alexander 34 MINUTES AGO  
> Pretty good.
>
> Seth Alexander 33 MINUTES AGO  
> So in the `User` model for this lab I get a test passing using:
>
> Seth Alexander 33 MINUTES AGO  
> ```ruby
> has_many :trip_listings, :through => :trips, :source => :listing
> has_many :hosts, :through => :trip_listings, :foreign_key => 'host_id'
> ```
>
> Seth Alexander 32 MINUTES AGO  
> I've read the Rails Guide and Googled but still don't grasp what is actually happening when I use `:source`
>
> Seth Alexander 32 MINUTES AGO  
> If you could walk me through step by step what my code is doing, that's what I'm looking for.
>
> PJ 24 MINUTES AGO  
> Definitely it's a pretty new topic give me one sec though sorry about hte wait!
>
> Seth Alexander 23 MINUTES AGO  
> No problem, I'm not actually stuck, just trying to understand better.
>
> PJ 19 MINUTES AGO  
> no worries! so the idea behind source is pretty fundamental to polymorphic associations - having one object that can be used as essentially a different object with the same properties
>
> PJ 17 MINUTES AGO  
> an easy example to think about is a family tree - instead of making a new object for every single member of the family you could have one Person class
>
> PJ 15 MINUTES AGO  
> and then have different associations using the same source object
>
> PJ 13 MINUTES AGO  
> in this situation you have a User that has listings but since they're not their own listings (think property manager) but as a guest they namespace them as a `trip_listing`
>
> Seth Alexander 10 MINUTES AGO  
> So are we basically "reaching" into `trips` and pulling out the `listing` method then setting it to `trip_listings` for the User model?
>
> PJ 9 MINUTES AGO  
> well listing is an object so not as much reach for it's method as reaching for it's relationship to the object
>
> PJ 9 MINUTES AGO  
> which since `user has many trips` it also has whatever relationships come with it
>
> PJ 8 MINUTES AGO  
> which is sort of the argument against using `OO programming` because when you have an object with relationships all of a sudden you have everything that it has
>
> PJ 7 MINUTES AGO  
> there's a saying that goes "I wanted a banana and you gave me a gorilla in the jungle holding a banana"
>
> Seth Alexander 7 MINUTES AGO  
> So `trip_listings` is setting up an association between User and listing > objects for the trips it has many of.
>
> PJ 6 MINUTES AGO  
> between User as a guest
>
> PJ 6 MINUTES AGO  
> but yes that's correct!
>
> Seth Alexander 4 MINUTES AGO  
> Okay, I guess I was thinking too much about the methods that got enabled and not the whole scope of things. Like, `User.trip_listings == User.trips.listings` and not the broader picture.
>
> PJ 2 MINUTES AGO  
> no worries!

Besides the lab that took me about 6 hours I moved along through the material. I had another block where some help was needed and it happened to be that I had one work mixed up. Took about 30 mins to find but once it was found the entire lab worked. It was awesome. The quantity of lessons & labs I'm completely daily is definitely going down lately but the bites are getting larger too. I hope to pick the pace back up (hours in code that is) and get back to where I was when I started. I think I'll feel better about my progress if I'm at that pace again. It also feels good to get stuff done and see more progress.

Time spent today: 9:40  
Time spent total: 232:07  
Lessons completed today: 7  
Lessons completed total: 457

  [1]:http://guides.rubyonrails.org/association_basics.html#options-for-has-many
